![](Comparison_Report_of_Marketing_Calendar_in_2017_and_2018_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-2-1.png)![](Comparison_Report_of_Marketing_Calendar_in_2017_and_2018_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-2-2.png)

From the above two bar charts, we can have a rough sense that there is
no huge change of number of submission across different film categories.
Narrative shorts accout for the majority part of the whole films both in
2017 and 2018. We can predict that narrative shorts will still be the
most popular category of film which participants will submit.

![](Comparison_Report_of_Marketing_Calendar_in_2017_and_2018_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-3-1.png)![](Comparison_Report_of_Marketing_Calendar_in_2017_and_2018_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-3-2.png)

As for Number of Submissions of Different Days, it can be seen that,
overall weekends (Saturday and Sunday) are not popular days for
participants to hand in their works. It makes sense since people are
more likely to relax（not to work）during this period. What is more,
compared to Year 2017, more participants choose Monday to submit and
fewer participants choose Wednesday, Thursday or Friday to submit. We
cannot say for sure that there is some reason behind but it is a good
guess that maybe in 2018, participants are more diligent during weekends
to work on the films and turn in the next Monday.

    ## Warning in read.table(file = file, header = header, sep = sep, quote =
    ## quote, : incomplete final line found by readTableHeader on '~/Desktop/AFF
    ## internship/mkt cld data visualization/2017/2017_mkt_cld_3.csv'

![](Comparison_Report_of_Marketing_Calendar_in_2017_and_2018_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-4-1.png)

    ## Warning in read.table(file = file, header = header, sep = sep, quote =
    ## quote, : incomplete final line found by readTableHeader on '~/Desktop/AFF
    ## internship/mkt cld data visualization/2018/2018_mkt_cld_3.csv'

![](Comparison_Report_of_Marketing_Calendar_in_2017_and_2018_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-4-2.png)

No instict change in the submission ways in different years. FilmFreeway
is the most popular way for particpants to hand in, Withoutabox is the
second, AFF the third. Additionally, if we look at the absolute number
of submissions of different submissions ways, we can discover that, in
comparison to Year 2017, the number of submissions in Year 2018 has
increase a lot. In 2017, there are below 500 submissions through AFF,
approximately 2500 pieces through FF, and about 2000 through WAB; in
2018, there are still about 500 through AFF, 3000 through FF and over
2000 through WAB.
